Implement oauth in KEB (#965)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/kyma-environment-broker/03-05-authorization.md

# Authorization

The Kyna Environment Broker provides the following ways to authorize users.

## Basic auth

To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with basic authorization enabled, you must specify an Authorization Basic token header:

```

> Authorization: Basic YnJva2VyOkVVMmpLQmVKOGc=

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorization: Basic {BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS}
```

```

>**NOTE**: The basic auth implementation is currently being replaced by the Oauth2 implementation and will be deprecated soon.

## Oauth2

> The Kyma Environment Broker allows to authorize users using the Oauth authentication. It is using the [ApiRule](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/06-01-apirule.md) to provide a VirtualService and [Oathkeeper Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules) according to the details specified in the CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kyma Environment Broker allows to authorize users using the OAuth2 authorization. It is using the [ApiRule](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/06-01-apirule.md) to provide a VirtualService and [Oathkeeper Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules) according to the details specified in the CR.
```

To authorize with the Kyma Environment Broker, use an OAuth2 client registered through the Hydra Maester controller. Look for more information [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/08-01-exposesecure.md#register-an-oauth2-client-and-get-tokens).

To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with OAuth2 authorization enabled, use the `/oauth` prefix. For example:

```
/oauth/v2/catalog
```

You must also specify an Authorization Bearer token header:

```
Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN}
```

### Access token

Follow the tutorial to obtain a new access token.

> 1. Create a OAuth2 Client:

Reviewer: add first step about exporting necessary env variables

---

which namespace should I use?

  ```shell
  cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
  apiVersion: hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1
  kind: OAuth2Client
  metadata:
    name: $CLIENT_NAME
    namespace: $CLIENT_NAMESPACE
  spec:
    grantTypes:
      - "client_credentials"
    scope: "broker:write"
    secretName: $CLIENT_NAME

>   EOF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EOF
```

# Authorization

The Kyna Environment Broker provides the following ways to authorize users.

## Basic auth

> To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with basic authorization enabled, you must specify an Authorization Basic token header:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with the Basic authorization enabled, specify the `Authorization: Basic` token header:
```

```
Authorization: Basic {BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS}
```

> >**NOTE**: The basic auth implementation is currently being replaced by the Oauth2 implementation and will be deprecated soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE**: This implementation is currently being replaced by the Oauth2 implementation and will be deprecated soon.
```

## Oauth2

> The Kyma Environment Broker allows to authorize users using the OAuth2 authorization. It is using the [ApiRule](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/06-01-apirule.md) to provide a VirtualService and [Oathkeeper Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules) according to the details specified in the CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kyma Environment Broker allows for authorizing users with the OAuth2 authorization. It uses the [ApiRule](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/06-01-apirule.md) to provide a VirtualService and [Oathkeeper Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules) according to the details specified in the CR.
```

> To authorize with the Kyma Environment Broker, use an OAuth2 client registered through the Hydra Maester controller. Look for more information [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/08-01-exposesecure.md#register-an-oauth2-client-and-get-tokens).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To authorize with Kyma Environment Broker, use an OAuth2 client registered through the Hydra Maester controller. For more information, read [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/08-01-exposesecure.md#register-an-oauth2-client-and-get-tokens) document.
```

> To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with OAuth2 authorization enabled, use the `/oauth` prefix. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with the OAuth2 authorization enabled, use the `/oauth` prefix. For example:
```

```
/oauth/v2/catalog
```

> You must also specify an Authorization Bearer token header:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must also specify the `Authorization: Bearer` token header:
```

```
Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN}
```

### Access token

> Follow the tutorial to obtain a new access token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to obtain a new access token:
```

1. Export these values as environment variables:

  - The name of your client and the Secret which stores the client credentials:

    ```shell
    export CLIENT_NAME={YOUR_CLIENT_NAME}
    ```

  - The Namespace in which you want to create the client and the Secret that stores its credentials:

    ```shell
    export CLIENT_NAMESPACE={YOUR_CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
    ```

  - The domain of your cluster:

    ```shell
    export DOMAIN={CLUSTER_DOMAIN}
    ```

> 2. Create a OAuth2 Client:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create an OAuth2 client:
```

# Authorization

Kyma Environment Broker provides two ways to authorize users:
- Basic authorization
- OAuth2 authorization

## Basic authorization

To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with the Basic authorization enabled, specify the `Authorization: Basic` token header:

```
Authorization: Basic {BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS}
```

>**NOTE**: This implementation is currently being replaced by the Oauth2 implementation and will be deprecated soon.

## OAuth2 authorization

The Kyma Environment Broker allows to authorize users using the OAuth2 authorization. It is using the [ApiRule](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/api-gateway-v2/06-01-apirule.md) to provide a [VirtualService](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/) and [Oathkeeper Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules) according to the details specified in the CR.
To authorize with the Kyma Environment Broker, use an OAuth2 client registered through the [Hydra Maester controller](https://github.com/ory/k8s/blob/master/docs/helm/hydra-maester.md).

> To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with the OAuth2 authorization enabled, use the `/oauth` prefix. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Kyma Environment Broker endpoints with the OAuth2 authorization enabled, use the `/oauth` prefix. For example:
```

```
/oauth/v2/catalog
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you do not use the `/oauth` prefix, the Basic authorization is performed.
```

You must also specify the `Authorization: Bearer` token header:

```
Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN}
```

> ### Access token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Get the access token
```
